# Reference

<!-- DO NOT EDIT: This document was generated by Puppet Strings -->

## Table of Contents

### Resource types

* [`chattr`](#chattr): Manage file attributes

## Resource types

### <a name="chattr"></a>`chattr`

This type enables Puppet to manage file attributes. Normally Linux
recognizes the following attributes:

    a - append only
    A - no atime updates
    c - compressed
    C - no copy on write
    d - no dump
    D - synchronous directory updates
    e - extent format
    F - case-insensitive directory lookups
    i - immutable
    j - data journalling
    m - don't compress
    P - project hierarchy
    s - secure deletion
    S - synchronous updates
    t - no tail-merging
    T - top of directory hierarchy
    u - undeletable
    x - direct access for files

Not all file attributes are supported by all file systems. Also only
a subset of these attributes have been implemented by this type.

The following attributes are read-only and can not be modified:

    E - encrypted
    I - indexed directory
    N - inline data
    V - verity

**Note**

Setting the immutable attribute also prevents any future file
modifications by Puppet. Setting this attribute might cause errors in the
future if the file content is also managed by Puppet.

**Autorequires**

If the file is also managed by Puppet this type will autorequire the file.

#### Examples

##### Set the immutable file attribute

```puppet

chattr { '/etc/machine-id':
  immutable => true,
}
```

#### Properties

The following properties are available in the `chattr` type.

##### `append_only`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Specifies the value of the append only file attribute.

A file with the `a` attribute can only be opened in append mode for
writing.

##### `immutable`

Valid values: `true`, `false`

Specifies the value of the immutable file attribute.

A file with the `i` attribute cannot be modified: it cannot be deleted
or renamed, no link can be created to this file, most of the file's
metadata can not be modified, and the file can not be opened in write
mode.

#### Parameters

The following parameters are available in the `chattr` type.

* [`file`](#-chattr--file)
* [`provider`](#-chattr--provider)

##### <a name="-chattr--file"></a>`file`

The file for which the file attributes should be managed.

##### <a name="-chattr--provider"></a>`provider`

The specific backend to use for this `chattr` resource. You will seldom need to specify this --- Puppet will usually
discover the appropriate provider for your platform.

